Hello, I'm Kanav. I'm a freshman at Northwestern University. Can you please tell me a bit about yourself? Hi, I'm Advikand I'm a freshman in Duke University. I'm studying computer science and economics and I'm an international student from India. Oh, all right. So first of all, like thank you for agreeing to do this. We just basically want to get to know a bit more about you, like how you previously purchased or scheduling or like productivity software and like what you potentially use it for. So if it's like at all cool with you can can this conversation be recorded purely for internal research? No like no one will hear it except for me Oh great. And also just kind of a quick note, since you know we're really trying to understand how you bought stuff, like what you did, we might have to ask you some like very specific questions and we might have to interrupt you in between. 'Cause like we're a bit short on time. So is that cool with you? No, it's we can go ahead. Alright. So you mentioned you were a freshman at Duke University. Can you walk me through what a normal day looks like for you at Duke? Yeah, sure. I have like a set of two to three classes, lunch in the middle, maybe catch up with friends. Then depending on the fact time, like maybe go to the gym, finish up homework at night, post dinner or like hang out with friends And it usually like happens on the flow, like it just happens like that. so what do you mean exactly by like going with the flow? So like I have stuff to do, but we're clear when I I'm gonna do it. So like if I have a problem set due a day after tomorrow, maybe I'll start it right now, but maybe I'll switch to something that's due at noon tomorrow before my class and then I'll switch again, but like suddenly it becomes way too calm. Oh so was there a specific moment where you realized that this could potentially turn out to be a big problem for you? semester which like came fall for me this week I had like three finals in three days and obviously first time in college like doing finals. I think it was my yeah it was my econ final and like I knew it was coming. It wasn't like a surprise or anything. And I just kept pushing studying because there were so many things to do and it just kept being pushed back. So you mentioned you kept pushing studying, like how exactly can you like Like make it a bit more clear. Yeah, so like I said like I had like three exams in the row in the week. So I think okay I'll start for e-com tomorrow. But then something else would come up. I'd have to finish my paper for my fourth club Or I just do something easier instead like my CS class is pretty easy. So I just do that instead even when I didn't need to. And I think it got to like a day maybe or like I think it got to a day before the so you mentioned you hadn't really started properly. Did it like get back on you or like what happened next Sorry to cram everything and during exam I could tell like halfway through I was missing stuff I should have known and I could exactly tell you where it was, like what lecture it was and I could the concept but I just couldn't tell you exactly how to answer that question because I didn't allot enough time to study for the exam. And it was not like because it was hard or anything. So you didn't give yourself enough time, so does it mean that it felt kind of avoidable? Oh definitely. the worst part. I felt like I messed it up myself and it was completely avoidable and I just should have like done better. So after that, what did you think you needed potentially to rectify what you had done before? Yeah, so when I went back I like talked to a couple of people and it came I came to realize that okay, I need some kind of system or something. Because high school, I mean, we had a structured timetaving for our days and then homework was pretty lenient and like exams and everything there was pretty spaced out so you could remember to do things last minute and things weren't that high stakes as they are in college. But I feel over here that doesn't really work. So had you tried anything like that before coming to college Seriously I'd say I think during high school, like during like exam season or something, I'd make a I'd make a new note for exams and then they just write down, Okay, I need to do this, I need to do this But then I'd forgot I'd forget they exist so I'd just move on and like go to my casual schedule. Alright, so you mentioned to me that you you ended up using Notion and it worked out for you. So could you like delve a bit deeper into how did you exactly end up trying Notion but listen to this or whoever reads this. So yeah, going how I started using Notion. like like I said, I talked to a couple of people, saw like TikTok started popping up and like a couple of YouTube videos started popping up like this is how you can do it and I see I saw a lot of people using Notion and They had they were showing off their setups. Yeah. So what made you like actually try try it? Like what pushed you to the to the brink? my room actually we had set something up already and when I saw someone like who was actually living with me using it I was like oh damn okay I think I should do the same thing and that was like probably that that's what pushed me over from the fans from like starting with watching YouTube videos. and stuff about it and like just popping up on my feed and then actually seeing someone use it in real life I was like okay this could actually be good, I should maybe try it out. Yeah that sounds great. So talking from my experience usually when I use like an AI service or anything, I usually try the the free version first like a free trial and then if I like it I go on to like actually purchase the premium. So can you tell me about like when you started with Notion Notion? Did you straight go into the premium or you tried the free version first like everybody else does? I was not paying for them for like the first month where I just started using it. So I think I don't remember it if they had the f so I did this in January, so but like like it's now April. I don't remember if they had the free version, but it was like a premium trial. wait, I think it was the free plan. I think the free plan the notion is the basic free plan and so I started with that and I think that was pretty decent as well. all right so for a cro if you at all remember for a approximately how long did you use the free version of Notion initially I think I think it's around a month, maybe a bit less, maybe like three weeks. Right. Three weeks still sounds like a decent amount of time for judging something. So how was that experience for you? It was actually pretty good. Because like I came in from being a person who took down notes on my notes app and just made to do list of things I want to do or like maybe have it on a sticky note on my desk and stick it up on the wall and like okay And then I'd take like the sticky note off or like delete the note and something even if I remember the note. So I was I was pretty much a noob on like planning and everything. So I was using it a lot, I was setting things up. I tried a lot of different templates. I faltered a couple of * as well. Like I missed one of my classes because I messed up. But then like that taught me how to do it. So I like kept playing around with it and I was like, okay damn okay, I'm getting the hang of it. And it felt pretty good. Like I think the third week I was like pretty spot on. I was adding things on the fly as well to my schedule and I felt I knew what was gonna happen with my day and I was pretty like set and pretty Oh yeah, that's great. So just getting things right, you use the free trial for the approximately three weeks And then you upgraded to the premium version. So what made you what was that factor factor exactly that made you upgrade to the premium version after using the free trials? so deep into it and I I actually felt living my day and I was like so much improvement I'm getting out of this and then I thought okay I'm actually using this so I might as well get the full version and make use of all the features that will be there. There were some limits or something I don't fully remember that I felt like I was going through I was gonna get through in the f full version like the premium plan, but it totally felt worth it at the time. Alright, so like once you explored all the features inside Notion, what were you exactly trying to set up inside the app? So my classes statue, so like all of my classes have the same new data. for their homework, so set up like weekly reminders for them. I'd have like exams, I'd have exams pop up, my club meetings and everything would be in there, deadlines for like say job applications that would pop up. I'd immediately put them in there so that I could get my resume in line and like have the cover letter and everything. I tried doing like daily planning also, but that was harder to keep up with as a lot of things would come up on the fly So the big picture of you was always in there and like small picture of you say it's like 2 p.m. today and I know something is gonna happen at 8 p.m. Maybe I'd like forget to put that on since it was just harder to keep up so you mentioned that it you m you just mentioned that it was pretty hard for you to keep up with everything. So can you like elaborate a bit more on how it got it got on to you Definitely. Um, I had to keep updating it. Every time something changed, I had to go in and fix it. And if I didn't do it one day, then everything kind of got off. So say if yeah, this happened, like one of my club meetings moved back, I forgot to do it, then one of my homework schedules got back. And I think I like within a few weeks I I was so reliant on the scheduling and 'cause I was so I was like checking Notion every hour or like every couple of hours and everything like started to get ingrained in my mind. I was on the pinning plan for maybe a month, a month and a half, about forty days. And then I started kind of getting irritated by it because it just kept getting harder and harder to keep up with them small thing and since I was using it so much and since I had so much of it on my brain as well, I think it became irritating to keep everything because I feel like once you step your foot in you want the entire you want the entire experience nothing with it. So it just went away after those first few weeks. Yeah that was that is thank you. That was pretty insightful but I know where this is going but can you like elaborate a bit more on what happened after the consumption of notion like after the first few weeks. Okay, I stopped using it as much semester and became irritating. I felt the need to update everything 'cause my schedules would move around so much. Like by the second month of the semester I knew I knew when my classes were, I knew where they were, I knew when the homeworks were due. And I just would tell me like, okay, the midterm's coming up next week. We have a review class and everything. So I didn't really know I didn't I I didn't I did not need notion any longer for those kind of things. And like club meetings or like hangouts or like meetups with people or something like like job application season had ended by that as well so there were no moving deadlines that were being added and like meetings were pretty set like the GDMs for my clubs every day they were pretty set so I started to forget to check it because I had everything already set so if if then I didn't check it I'd stop updating it and then it became irrelevant to me and since I was so irritated it didn't feel like paying the money anymore Because I was like, okay, why did I pay this? I could use this money in a way better manner somewhere else. So I feel like it just died out. Alright, so that's like pretty intriguing to me. Like you stopped using Notion after like a few Weeks, so I'm pretty curious like looking back. What do you think exactly didn't work? Work out for you Oh, like what do you mean exactly by that Because I wasn't organized, but then it needed me to already be organized to use it properly. So it didn't really fix the problems, you know, like I had to keep updating it and had to be organized within my myself to keep myself organized through a platform that had to be kept organized by me. So the first few weeks felt exciting was I was using a new thing and I was like, oh damn, I was like a kid with a new toy, right? This is a new piece of technology I have and I'm like I'm just gonna have fun with it. But then towards the end I was like, oh, I'm back to my normal normal self Oh that that's that's pretty odd, but so if I'm if I'm not wrong, it kind of assumed behavior that you didn't have or you didn't develop yet? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Like I wasn't that organized, I need something to keep me organized, but then I had to be organized to keep myself organized through a platform that I had to organize myself, if that makes sense Alright, alright. So like coming nearing the end, if you could design something that actually worked out for you, what like what exactly would it do if you could explain it to me? Yes, so I feel like something that only knows what's gonna happen and just kind of tells me instead of me having to figure it out every time and then put it in. So if something could like integrate with Duke Cub which is our scheduling for our classes exams and everything, so I'd not have to put my class exam and everything in one go. So if you integrate it with DukuCub it becomes easier. Then if it could directly integrate with my tablindor invites or like my group chats like it could read through my group chats and then realize where meetings are and then put them in my calendar without me actually having to go through that process because I may just end up missing it or I may just read it in my like already know so I don't want to put Alright, alright. That was like pretty pretty helpful for me So I just want to make sure that I understood everything properly. So let me try to summarize this to you in the appropriate timeline and you could tell me if I'm off anywhere. Does that work with you? Yeah, sure. So, you came into college already kind of knowing that your high school old school or high school way of remembering things or doing stuff last minute probably wouldn't work for you. So then if I remember correctly, during your finals especially your econ exam it kind of proved that because you ended up cramming up and didn't ended up cramming up information and it didn't go well, even though you felt like you could have done better if you had planned it out. Am I Yeah yeah that's that's pretty accurate Alright. And then like right after that you didn't immediately jump into solution, but it was more like this feeling of I need to, you know, sort of Get my stuff together and then seeing other students and if I remember correctly your roommate and all those notions setups kind of pushed you into trying something? Yeah, maybe not like one like hey damn I should do this. Alright, so then comes the real magic. You tried Notion and started with the free version, used it for like three weeks and it actually felt pretty good at first. But then you upgraded because you thought, okay, this might actually work out. Yes. So but then over time it kind of fell apart mostly because it needed you to constantly update it and stay consistent. And that's kind of the same problem you were trying to fix in the first place? Yes, that's totally true. Alright, great. And now you kind of back to a mix of like memory calendar, canvas and it kind of seems more reactive than than planned. So is there anything that I missed or anything you want to change in that Notion isn't bad, like I said at the start, I'd recommend it to someone who's kind of organized. Just to be like 'cause it's such a good tool to use. But it did not match how I work day to day. And you need something more active, something more maybe not active, something more proactive than myself. Alright, so something more proactive than yourself, like exactly how? So like like I said, like if if I give it access to my email, if I give it access to my group me and my group chats, it can like go through them and then actually figure out what to do what I have to do at what time like put it together for me and just make it easier so like maybe like have a plot isn't running in the background doing Alright, alright. I think I've captured almost everything in like the given time I had. Thank you, that was very insightful Adik. Happy to unpee, thank you


